---
id: 39
title: Step Zero
date: 2017-10-29T22:41:18+00:00
author: Techno Bodhi
layout: post
guid: https://technobodhi.com/?p=39
permalink: /2017/10/29/step-zero/
categories:
  - Buddhist Recovery
---
Today marks two weeks sober. And this week I will formally begin Step 1 with my sponsor.
<blockquote>For a homework assignment, ask yourself the following questions:</blockquote>
<blockquote></blockquote>
<blockquote>(1) Do you want what we have?  In fact, ask yourself, what is it that we have?  What is it that you want to attain?</blockquote>
<blockquote></blockquote>
<blockquote>(2) Are you willing to go to any lengths?  At this point, is there anything you are not willing to do?</blockquote>
<blockquote></blockquote>
<blockquote>(3) Do you feel ready to take the steps?</blockquote>

1) Yes. I want what sober people have. I want to live a happy and productive life, with meaningful relationships, where I feel comfortable enough to express myself, without needing the crutch of alcohol.

I want to be comfortable in my own skin. Happy and proud of who I am.

2) I am willing to do everything my sponsor tells me. Even things I think are silly. Or stupid. Like my first homework assignment which was annotating the forward to the Big Book.

I have to be honest in saying that I’m a little cynical about the whole process. I still don’t see how attending multiple meetings a week will help me. Ideally in looking for a “cure” where I don’t have to spend the rest of my life trying to be sober. I want to just achieve sobriety. And then live.

One of my good friends has been working at sobriety a while now. And it’s the single thing that defines his life. It’s a big part of his identity. Being an alcoholic was never what defined my life. It was a small part of it.

I want the meaningful relationships that come with attending the meetings. But the time commitment is a bit worrying at this point.

3) I feel as ready as I’ll ever be. I’ve known this was a problem for a while now. I wouldn’t say that I’m enthusiastic about it. But I’m ready nonetheless.