---
id: 41
title: Week 3
date: 2017-10-30T22:35:36+00:00
author: Techno Bodhi
layout: post
guid: https://technobodhi.com/2017/10/30/week-3/
permalink: /2017/10/30/week-3/
categories:
  - Uncategorized
---
Tonight was my third Monday meeting. I really like the guys I’ve started hanging with. Tonight they drug me to Target with them after dinner and it was a lot of fun. I’m glad I went.

I feel like the routine of AA is starting to become more familiar to me. In no particular order, some things that resonated with me tonight:
<ul>
 	<li><strong>Coming to terms with being gay was a hard experience</strong>. That’s one of the things that led me to drink. Another guy was open about his experience. I think I’m pretty comfortable in my own skin now, where sexuality is concerned, but there’s definitely some internalized homophobia in there.</li>
 	<li>Another guy talked about <strong>feelings of inadequacy.</strong> Like I’m not enough. Like I’m scared to let people see the real me. Like I’m undeserving of love. Still very much a problem.</li>
 	<li><strong>Struggling to make time for recovery.</strong> One guy talked about his troubles with work taking a priority over his recovery and he ended up losing his job over it. I guess that’s a cautionary tale for me. At the same time I do need to be able to live, pay my bills and nurture my other relationships. Which are important to me. So everything in balance.</li>
</ul>I’m starting to feel more comfortable with my sponsor. He’s a good guy. I feel myself opening up just a tiny bit more. I guess it’s a process. I still feel a bit awkward. I also have trouble receiving and returning love. Like the guys said they love me tonight. And I can honestly say that back to them and mean it. But saying it out loud is hard. I’m not sure if it’s because I feel inadequate like I don’t deserve it or if it’s a masculinity thing? In any case, it’s gradually getting easier.

I connected with two new guys tonight and got numbers. I don’t see myself reaching out. Because I feel like that would be too difficult to do. But maybe I will see them around and at least be able to put names to faces.

My next meeting with these guys will be 30 days of sobriety for me.